Reference for stage 3 set-methods (#28414)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/set/difference/index.md

---
title: Set.prototype.difference()
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Set/difference
page-type: javascript-instance-method
browser-compat: javascript.builtins.Set.difference
---

{{JSRef}}

> The **`difference()`** method of {{jsxref("Set")}} instances takes a set and returns a new set containing elements in this set but not in the given set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`difference()`** method of {{jsxref("Set")}} instances takes a set and returns a new set containing elements in this set that are not in the given set.
```
committing an edit so the pages will rebuild ;)

## Syntax

```js-nolint
difference(other)
```

### Parameters

- `other`
  - : A {{jsxref("Set")}} object, or [set-like](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Set#set-like_objects) object.

### Return value

> A new {{jsxref("Set")}} object containing elements in this set but not in `other`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new {{jsxref("Set")}} object containing elements in this set but not in the `other` set or set-like object.
```

## Description

In mathematical notation, _difference_ is defined as:

> <math display="block"><semantics><mrow><mi>A</mi><mo>∖</mo><mi>B</mi><mo>=</mo><mo stretchy="false">{</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>∊</mo><mi>A</mi><mo>∣</mo><mi>x</mi><mo>∉</mo><mi>B</mi><mo stretchy="false">}</mo></mrow><annotation encoding="TeX">A\setminus B = \{x\in A\mid x\notin B\}</annotation></semantics></math>

Author: That's mostly a font issue. MDN doesn't seem to be using a decent math font.

And using Venn diagram:

![A Venn diagram illustrating the difference between set A and B](diagram.svg)

`difference()` accepts [set-like](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Set#set-like_objects) objects as the `other` parameter. It requires {{jsxref("Operators/this", "this")}} to be an actual {{jsxref("Set")}} instance, because it directly retrieves the underlying data stored in `this` without invoking any user code. Then, its behavior depends on the sizes of `this` and `other`:

> - If there are more elements in `this` than `other.size`, then it iterates over `other` by calling its `keys()` method, and constructs a new set with all elements in `this` that are not seen in `other`.

Author: The `keys()` method here is an arbitrary method that the user provides, which may or may not be `Set.prototype.keys()`. This is explained in the "set-like objects" section, linked above.
